Now that you have learned about DenseFeatures,
let's use it to build a regression model with
some of the TensorFlow feature call methods you learned earlier.
For this walk through,
we use the same car mileage data set that the TensorFlow regression tutorial uses.
Largely use the same pr-processing and modeling code,
except that we will use
DenseFeatures in a TensorFlow feature column for feature engineering.
Just to set expectations right,
we've largely use the TensorFlow regression tutorial.
This is just to illustrate,
as I just mentioned,
how to preprocess the data with the methods we just went over.
It is not an optimized model and you will have opportunity and challenge to improve it.
So getting back to the preprocessing code,
I put the code here in a notebook for the preprocessing from the tutorial.
It's largely the same as the tutorial.
Just to note that the output is a normalized dataset,
so they've normalized in numerical features.
We'll load those up and use those for the walk through.
So we will load the normalized train and test datasets here.
Then use the same ETL method we learned earlier,
where we load them into Pandas DataFrames and convert them to TensorFlow datasets.
Then take a sample to verify,
which we'll look at later when we use the TensorFlow feature column API.
Next, we will convert the one categorical feature origin,
which is the country of origin for the vehicle
and create a vocab from just a list of unique values,
since the unique values are small.
So you can see the unique values are here,
and we're just passing this into this function.
Then we use the indicator function again that we
learned about earlier to create a one_hot_encoded_feature.
As you can see, here is the output of
that one_hot_encoded_feature on the sample we created earlier.
Then we can build
the TensorFlow numerical features using the method we learned earlier as well.
In this case, however,
our data has already been normalized for us,
so we don't need to add a normalizer function.
So if we take a look, this is a numeric column function that we learned about earlier.
In this case, we don't see the normalizer function as an argument as we mentioned.
In this loop, it's just looping through
all the different numeric columns and then
creating a TensorFlow numeric feature for each one of them,
and then creating that list.
So here's a list of every numeric column.
Now we've converted to a TensorFlow numeric column feature.
If we take just the first example,
cylinders, here's that feature represented in the Tensor.
Then we can use the dense features function to combine
the TensorFlow feature columns as
a feature layer to be added to the sequential API at the model.
So if we take the TensorFlow features that we just created,
put them into a list and then pass in into a dense features function,
we can create a dense feature layer,
which will pass to the first layer of a sequential API model.
Hopefully, the TensorFlow Keras model and functions should be familiar to you.
This is just the architecture from the tutorial again,
nothing too complicated, this is more just to
illustrate the preprocessing functions and the end-to-end process.
So these are just a couple of fully connected layers,
I'll put to a final layer,
fully connected layer and using common activation ReLU function.
Then you can play around with the different optimizers as well.
Lastly, just to know,
we went over common regression metrics.
So MSE, MEA, these should be common metrics that you should be familiar with.
In this case, we're using MSE.
Now that we went over how to use dense features to build a regression model,
we can build a model here and then train it.
In this case, I'm training over 100 epochs,
and just having an early stopping if it doesn't improve after 50 epochs.
Again, this is not an optimized model,
just larger utilizing what was done in TensorFlow tutorial,
which was just to illustrate the end-to-end process not to build an optimized model.
Now you can see the output from this model on the test set here.
As you can see, not a great performance.
So definitely feel free to play
around with the notebook and see how you can improve this model.
In this walk through,
we reviewed many of the concepts that we went over using TensorFlow for ETL,
creating features with the feature column API.
Now using dense features to combine
those features into a layer that can feed into your model.
Hopefully, this makes things easier for you to build models.